Add a blog about deploying to multiple regions (#1799)
pulumi/pulumi-hugo: themes/default/content/blog/deploy-to-multiple-regions/index.md

---
title: "Deploy Infrastructure to Multiple Cloud Regions at Once"
date: 2022-08-03T08:00:00-07:00
meta_desc: "Use infrastructure as code to deploy to multiple regions, accounts, or clusters at the same time, using Pulumi explicit provider configuration."
meta_image: deployinfra.png
authors: ["joe-duffy"]

> tags: ["aws", "regions", "rds"]

Reviewer: maybe multi-cloud or architecture  as a tag?

---

> Pulumi makes it easy to flexibly deploy your cloud infrastructure using code. Usually deployments encomass a single slack and a single region in your cloud of choice. If you need to go multi-region, that usually simply means creating a stack per-region, which Pulumi's configuration system makes easy. A stack per region isn't required, though! Sometimes we want a single stack to span regions for performance, scalability, resilience, or just hard requirements. In these cases, Pulumi can seamlessly orchestrate deployments to, or even across, multiple regions,  accounts, or clusters. In this article, we'll see this in action by provisioning an AWS RDS primary database into one region and a read replica in an entirely different region -- all from a single Pulumi program, stack, and `pulumi up` incantation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Pulumi makes it easy to flexibly deploy your cloud infrastructure using code. Usually deployments encompass a single slack and a single region in your cloud of choice. If you need to go multi-region, that usually means creating a stack per-region, which Pulumi's configuration system makes easy. A stack per region isn't required, though! Sometimes we want a single stack to span regions for performance, scalability, resilience, or just hard requirements. In these cases, Pulumi can seamlessly orchestrate deployments to, or even across, multiple regions,  accounts, or clusters. In this article, we'll see this in action by provisioning an AWS RDS primary database into one region and a read replica in an entirely different region -- all from a single Pulumi program, stack, and `pulumi up` incantation.
```

we added avoiding `simply` and `easy` to our style guide a bit ago, i think ur use of easy is tots okay here though, would suggest dropping simply though.

> Pulumi makes it easy to flexibly deploy your cloud infrastructure using code. Usually deployments encomass a single slack and a single region in your cloud of choice. If you need to go multi-region, that usually simply means creating a stack per-region, which Pulumi's configuration system makes easy. A stack per region isn't required, though! Sometimes we want a single stack to span regions for performance, scalability, resilience, or just hard requirements. In these cases, Pulumi can seamlessly orchestrate deployments to, or even across, multiple regions,  accounts, or clusters. In this article, we'll see this in action by provisioning an AWS RDS primary database into one region and a read replica in an entirely different region -- all from a single Pulumi program, stack, and `pulumi up` incantation.

Reviewer: Emcompass

```bash
$ pulumi config set aws:region us-east-1
```

This isn't just about regions: it applies to anything that varies between stacks. It might include accounts, secrets like tokens and passwords, sizes or counts of instances, among many other things.

This is normally very convenient and aligns with how we want to configure our projects and stacks. But there are some relatively common circumstances in which it breaks down:

* Managing a large number of multi-tenanted resources spanning multiple accounts or clusters.
* Cases where a few pieces of infrastructure must run somewhere different than most of it, as is often the case with DNS or SSL/TLS certificate management services.
* Situations where we want to provision resources in many places for performance, scalability, or resilience purposes.
* Highly programmatic scenarios where some configuration might be fetched dynamically from an external resource.

In all of these cases, thankfully Pulumi has an answer: [explicit provider configuration]({{< relref "/docs/intro/concepts/resources/providers#explicit-provider-configuration" >}}).

## How Explicit Provider Configuration Works

> Before diving into our example, let's take a quick look at how explicit provider configuration works. Unlike ordinary configuration, which is set at the CLI, provider configuration is set programmatically inside your Pulumi program. Every Pulumi package exports a `Provider` resource class which can be instantiated like any other resource, with the sole difference that these resources exist simply to pass around to configure _other_ resources, and don't represent infrastructure that is to be provisioned in a cloud of any kind.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before diving into our example, let's take a quick look at how explicit provider configuration works. Unlike ordinary configuration, which is set at the CLI, provider configuration is set programmatically inside your Pulumi program. Every Pulumi package exports a `Provider` resource class which can be instantiated like any other resource, with the sole difference that these resources exist to pass around to configure _other_ resources, and don't represent infrastructure that is to be provisioned in a cloud of any kind.
```

```

{{% /choosable %}}

This configuration is _not_ used automatically, however. You must pass it to any resources you'd like to use it:

{{% chooser language "typescript,python,go,csharp,yaml" / %}}

{{% choosable language typescript %}}

```typescript
const buck = new aws.s3.Bucket("my-bucket", {
    // ...
}, { provider: awsWest2 });
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language python %}}

```python
buck = aws.s3.Bucket('my-bucket',
    # ...
    __opts__=pulumi.ResourceOptions(provider=aws_west_2)
)
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language go %}}

```go
buck, err := s3.NewBucket("my-bucket",
    &s3.BucketArgs{
        // ...
    },
    pulumi.Provider(awsWest2)
)
if err != nil {
    return err
}
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language csharp %}}

```csharp
var buck = new Aws.S3.Bucket("my-bucket",
    new Aws.S3.BucketArgs
    {
        // ...
    },
    new ResourceArgs
    {
        Provider = awsWest2
    }
);
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language yaml %}}

```yaml
resources:
    # ...
    buck:
        type: aws:s3:Bucket
        properties:
            # ...
        options:
            provider: ${awsWest2}
```

{{% /choosable %}}

> This overrides the default of using whatever was set at the CLI, and will instead use the programmatically configured settings. Note also that anything you can set at the CLI is available, not just the region. You can see the full settings available in the package's registry documentation for its `Provider` class (for instance, [AWS's]({{< relref "/registry/packages/aws/api-docs/provider" >}}).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This overrides the default of using whatever was set at the CLI, and will instead use the programmatically configured settings. Note also that anything you can set at the CLI is available, not just the region. You can see the full settings available in the package's registry documentation for its `Provider` class (for instance, the [AWS Provider]({{< relref "/registry/packages/aws/api-docs/provider" >}}).
```

## Multi-Region Deployment In Action!

> The architecture for our multi-region setup is going to be very simple so we can focus on the essentials. We will provision a single RDS primary database in one region (us-east-1) and backup to a read replica in an entirely different region -- in fact, on an entirely different continent (eu-west-2)!

Reviewer 2: so in this case, what if someone new to this doesn't find this simple, it could make them feel like this isn't for them. is there a more specific descriptor we can use here, maybe `short`, or possibly drop the entire first sentence, is it necessary if the following sentence is describing what is involved?

Author: Let me noodle on this.  I agree with your point.  The thing I was trying to get across is that, I'd expect _most_ people interested in this post to have the opposite feeling!  That is, maybe they wanted to loop over all available AWS regions, or something even more complex, and by seeing the overly simplistic "two databases in two regions," I worry they may conclude Pulumi can't handle their complex use case.  That said, I think I can phrase it differently.

import * as random from "@pulumi/random";

// Code from below will goes here.
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language python %}}

```python
import pulumi
import pulumi_aws as aws
import pulumi_random as random

# Code from below goes here.
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language go %}}

```go
package main

import (
	"github.com/pulumi/pulumi-aws/sdk/v5/go/aws"
	"github.com/pulumi/pulumi-aws/sdk/v5/go/aws/rds"
	"github.com/pulumi/pulumi-random/sdk/v4/go/random"
	"github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v3/go/pulumi"
	"github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v3/go/pulumi/config"
)

func main() {
	pulumi.Run(func(ctx *pulumi.Context) error {
        // Code from below goes here.
    })
}
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language csharp %}}

```csharp
using System.Collections.Generic;
using Pulumi;
using Aws = Pulumi.Aws;
using Random = Pulumi.Random;

return await Deployment.RunAsync(() =>
{
    // Code from below goes here.
});
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language yaml %}}

```yaml
name: aws-multireg-rds
runtime: yaml
description: A multi-region example creating an RDS primary and read-replica in different regions

# Code from below goes here.
```

{{% /choosable %}}

> Next, we'll make the retention period configurable, but default it to 30 days. Note how we can still use standard configuration features _as well_ as explicit providers alongside one another:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, we'll make the retention period configurable, by default it is 30 days. Note how we can still use standard configuration features _as well_ as explicit providers alongside one another:
```

i don't know if i got this change right, but i think `but` is not the word you were looking for...

{{% chooser language "typescript,python,go,csharp,yaml" / %}}

{{% choosable language typescript %}}

```typescript
// Enable backup retention to be configured, but default to 30 days.
const config = new pulumi.Config();
const retentionPeriod = config.getNumber("retentionPeriod") || 30;
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language python %}}

```python
# Enable backup retention to be configured, but default to 30 days.
config = pulumi.Config()

> retention_period = config.get_float('retentionPeriod')

Reviewer: there's no default here

Author: Ooh, good catch!! This must be a bug in `pulumi convert`. If so, I'll file an issue.

us_provider = aws.Provider('usProvider', region = 'us-east-1')
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language go %}}

```go
// Create two AWS providers, one for each region we'll deploy into.
euProvider, err := aws.NewProvider(ctx, "euProvider", &aws.ProviderArgs{
    Region: pulumi.String("eu-west-2"),
})
if err != nil {
    return err
}
usProvider, err := aws.NewProvider(ctx, "usProvider", &aws.ProviderArgs{
    Region: pulumi.String("us-east-1"),
})
if err != nil {
    return err
}
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language csharp %}}

```csharp
// Create two AWS providers, one for each region we'll deploy into.
var euProvider = new Aws.Provider("euProvider", new()
{
    Region = "eu-west-2",
});

var usProvider = new Aws.Provider("usProvider", new()
{
    Region = "us-east-1",
});
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language yaml %}}

```yaml
resources:
  # Create two AWS providers, one for each region we'll deploy into.
  euProvider:
    type: pulumi:providers:aws
    properties:
      region: eu-west-2
  usProvider:
    type: pulumi:providers:aws
    properties:
      region: us-east-1
```

{{% /choosable %}}

> This is very straightforward in that we've hard-coded the regions into the program. Let's pause for a moment to consider the possibilities. We could have made those configurable too, much like our retention period. Even more powerfully, we could use our programming language's expressiveness to create them more dynamically. For instance, we could have looped over something so that the number is entirely dynamic. We've opted to keep the example simple but you're likely to appreciate these advanced capabilities in real-world scenarios.

Reviewer 2: same as previously, recommend dropping the last sentence or adjusting it to use a more specific word than `simple`

```go
// Output the primary and secondary database ARNs, and the auto-generated admin password.
ctx.Export("primary", primaryDb.Endpoint)
ctx.Export("secondary", secondaryDb.Endpoint)
ctx.Export("password", dbPassword.Result)
return nil
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language csharp %}}

```csharp
// Output the primary and secondary database ARNs, and the auto-generated admin password.
return new Dictionary<string, object?>
{
    ["primary"] = primaryDb.Endpoint,
    ["secondary"] = secondaryDb.Endpoint,
    ["password"] = dbPassword.Result,
};
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language yaml %}}

```yaml
# Output the primary and secondary database ARNs, and the auto-generated admin password.
outputs:
  primary: ${primary.endpoint}
  secondary: ${secondary.endpoint}
  password: ${dbPassword.result}
```

{{% /choosable %}}

Using these, we can easily access our new instance. Don't worry, the password is automatically encrypted!

For good measure, since all of our AWS resources are meant to use the explicit providers, and not the ambient default configuration, we can [disable default providers altogether](https://www.pulumi.com/blog/disable-default-providers/):

```bash

> $ pulumi config set --path pulumi:disable-default-providers[0] "aws"

Reviewer: Love this :)

```

If we forget to pass an explicit provider, we now get an error:

```
error: Default provider for 'aws' disabled. 'urn:pulumi:dev::aws-multireg-rds::aws:rds/instance:Instance::primary' must use an explicit provider.
```

> Now that we've got everything set up, we just run `pulumi up` which orchestrates everything end-to-end:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that we've got everything set up, we run `pulumi up` which orchestrates everything end-to-end:
```

```bash
$ pulumi up
Updating (dev)

     Type                            Name                  Status
 +   pulumi:pulumi:Stack             aws-multireg-rds-dev  created
 +   ├─ pulumi:providers:aws         euProvider            created
 +   ├─ pulumi:providers:aws         usProvider            created
 +   ├─ random:index:RandomPassword  dbPassword            created
 +   ├─ aws:rds:Instance             primary               created
 +   └─ aws:rds:Instance             secondary             created

Outputs:

>     password : [secret]

Reviewer: Secrets FTW :)

    primary  : "primarybe35b53.c0q7bvujknic.us-east-1.rds.amazonaws.com:3306"
    secondary: "secondaryacb6a3d.c8qninoaapw8.eu-west-2.rds.amazonaws.com:3306"

Resources:
    + 6 created

Duration: 27m0s
```

## Winding Down

In this article, you saw some reasons why deploying your infrastructure across multiple regions, accounts, or clusters may be necessary. You saw that Pulumi supports two forms of configuration -- implicit configuration set at the CLI with `pulumi config` as well as explicit provider configuration which is constructed and passed programmatically -- and how and when to use them, often in tandem with one another.

> The specific example shown to demonstrate multi-region in action deployed an AWS RDS primary database to a US region and a secondary read replica to Europe, which is a common architecture to improve resilience and performance. The power of full programming languages gives you a ton of flexibility in how you orchestrate such complex architctures.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The specific example shown to demonstrate multi-region in action deployed an AWS RDS primary database to a US region and a secondary read replica to Europe, which is a common architecture to improve resilience and performance. The power of full programming languages gives you a ton of flexibility in how you orchestrate such complex architectures.
```
